<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE article
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.2//EN"
         "file:///usr/local/share/xml/docbook/4.2/docbookx.dtd"
[]>

<article status="draft">
  <articleinfo>
    <title>
      Pairs Language-Independent Type for <trademark>YAML</trademark>
    </title>

    <subtitle>
      Working Draft 200?-??-??
    </subtitle>

    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <firstname>Oren</firstname>
        <surname>Ben-Kiki</surname>
        <email>oren@ben-kiki.org</email>
      </author>

      <author>
        <firstname>Clark</firstname>
        <surname>Evans</surname>
        <email>cce+yaml@clarkevans.com</email>
      </author>

      <author>
        <firstname>Brian</firstname>
        <surname>Ingerson</surname>
        <email>ingy@ttul.org</email>
      </author>
    </authorgroup>

    <copyright>
      <year>2001-2004</year>
      <holder>Oren Ben-Kiki</holder>
      <holder>Clark Evans</holder>
      <holder>Brian Ingerson</holder>
    </copyright>

    <legalnotice>
      This document may be freely copied provided it is not modified.
    </legalnotice>

    <abstract>
      <title>Status</title>

      <para>
        This specification is a release candidate and reflects consensus
        reached by members of the yaml-core mailing list. Any questions
        regarding this draft should be raised on this list at <ulink
        url="http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/yaml-core"/>. With
        this release of the YAML specification, all further changes will be
        strictly limited to clarifications, or fixing bugs in productions. At
        this point, further enhancement or correction of logical flaws will be
        put off to the next version (1.1) of the YAML specification.
      </para>
    </abstract>
  </articleinfo>

  <section>
    <variablelist>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <para>
            URI:
          </para>
        </term>

        <listitem>
          <para>
            <userinput>tag:yaml.org,2002:pairs</userinput>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <para>
            Shorthand:
          </para>
        </term>

        <listitem>
          <para>
            <userinput>!pairs</userinput>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <para>
            Kind:
          </para>
        </term>

        <listitem>
          <para>
            Sequence.
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <para>
            Definition:
          </para>
        </term>

        <listitem>
          <para>
            Ordered sequence of key:value pairs allowing duplicates.
          </para>

          <para>
            A common type used for modeling is the ordered list of named
            values, allowing duplicates. For example, this is one of the basic
            constructs used to model XML data. YAML provides a shorthand
            notation for representing this data type as a sequence of one-key
            mappings.
          </para>

          <para>
            Most programming languages do not have a built-in native data type
            for supporting pairs. Such data types are usually provided by
            libraries. If no such data type is available, an application may
            resort to loading <userinput>!pairs</userinput> into a native array
            of hash tables containing one key each.
          </para>

          <para>
            The <userinput>!pairs</userinput> tag may be given explicitly, or
            the application may choose to implicitly type a sequence of
            single-key mappings to pairs. In this case, an explicit
            <userinput>!seq</userinput> transfer must be given to sequences of
            single-key mappings that do not represent pairs.
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <example>
      <title><userinput>!pairs</userinput> Examples</title>
<programlisting>
# Explicitly typed pairs.
tasks: !pairs
  - meeting: with team.
  - meeting: with boss.
  - break: lunch.
  - meeting: with client.
</programlisting>
    </example>
  </section>
</article>
