<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE article
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.2//EN"
         "file:///usr/local/share/xml/docbook/4.2/docbookx.dtd"
[]>

<article status="draft">
  <articleinfo>
    <title>
      Merge Key Language-Independent Type for <trademark>YAML</trademark>
    </title>

    <subtitle>
      Working Draft 200?-??-??
    </subtitle>

    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <firstname>Oren</firstname>
        <surname>Ben-Kiki</surname>
        <email>oren@ben-kiki.org</email>
      </author>

      <author>
        <firstname>Clark</firstname>
        <surname>Evans</surname>
        <email>cce+yaml@clarkevans.com</email>
      </author>

      <author>
        <firstname>Brian</firstname>
        <surname>Ingerson</surname>
        <email>ingy@ttul.org</email>
      </author>
    </authorgroup>

    <copyright>
      <year>2001-2004</year>
      <holder>Oren Ben-Kiki</holder>
      <holder>Clark Evans</holder>
      <holder>Brian Ingerson</holder>
    </copyright>

    <legalnotice>
      This document may be freely copied provided it is not modified.
    </legalnotice>

    <abstract>
      <title>Status</title>

      <para>
        This specification is a release candidate and reflects consensus
        reached by members of the yaml-core mailing list. Any questions
        regarding this draft should be raised on this list at <ulink
        url="http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/yaml-core"/>. With
        this release of the YAML specification, all further changes will be
        strictly limited to clarifications, or fixing bugs in productions. At
        this point, further enhancement or correction of logical flaws will be
        put off to the next version (1.1) of the YAML specification.
      </para>
    </abstract>
  </articleinfo>

  <part>
    <variablelist>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>URI:</term>
        <listitem><userinput>tag:yaml.org,2002:merge</userinput></listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Shorthand:</term>
        <listitem><userinput>!merge</userinput></listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Kind:</term>
        <listitem>Scalar.</listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Canonical:</term>
        <listitem>
          N/A (single format).
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Regexp:</term>
        <listitem>
          <userinput>&lt;&lt;</userinput>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Definition:</term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Specify one or more mappings to be merged with the current one.
          </para>

          <para>
            The <quote><userinput>&lt;&lt;</userinput></quote> merge key is
            used to indicate that all the keys of one or more specified maps
            should be inserted into the current map. If the value associated
            with the key is a single mapping node, each of its key/value pairs
            is inserted into the current mapping, unless the key already exists
            in it. If the value associated with the merge key is a sequence,
            then this sequence is expected to contain mapping nodes, and each
            of these nodes is merged in turn according to its order in the
            sequence. Keys in mapping nodes earlier in the sequence override
            keys specified in later mapping nodes.
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <example>
<screen>
---
- &amp;CENTER { x: 1, y: 2 }
- &amp;LEFT { x: 0, y: 2 }
- &amp;BIG { r: 10 }
- &amp;SMALL { r: 1 }

# All the following maps are equal:

- # Explicit keys
  x: 1
  y: 2
  r: 10
  label: center/big

- # Merge one map
  &lt;&lt; : *CENTER
  r: 10
  label: center/big

- # Merge multiple maps
  &lt;&lt; : [ *CENTER, *BIG ]
  label: center/big

- # Override
  &lt;&lt; : [ *BIG, *LEFT, *SMALL ]
  x: 1
  label: center/big
</screen>
    </example>
  </part>
</article>
