<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE article
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.2//EN"
         "file:///usr/local/share/xml/docbook/4.2/docbookx.dtd"
[]>

<article status="draft">
  <articleinfo>
    <title>
      Binary Data Language-Independent Type for <trademark>YAML</trademark>
    </title>

    <subtitle>
      Working Draft 200?-??-??
    </subtitle>

    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <firstname>Oren</firstname>
        <surname>Ben-Kiki</surname>
        <email>oren@ben-kiki.org</email>
      </author>

      <author>
        <firstname>Clark</firstname>
        <surname>Evans</surname>
        <email>cce+yaml@clarkevans.com</email>
      </author>

      <author>
        <firstname>Brian</firstname>
        <surname>Ingerson</surname>
        <email>ingy@ttul.org</email>
      </author>
    </authorgroup>

    <copyright>
      <year>2001-2004</year>
      <holder>Oren Ben-Kiki</holder>
      <holder>Clark Evans</holder>
      <holder>Brian Ingerson</holder>
    </copyright>

    <legalnotice>
      This document may be freely copied provided it is not modified.
    </legalnotice>

    <abstract>
      <title>Status</title>

      <para>
        This specification is a release candidate and reflects consensus
        reached by members of the yaml-core mailing list. Any questions
        regarding this draft should be raised on this list at <ulink
        url="http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/yaml-core"/>. With
        this release of the YAML specification, all further changes will be
        strictly limited to clarifications, or fixing bugs in productions. At
        this point, further enhancement or correction of logical flaws will be
        put off to the next version (1.1) of the YAML specification.
      </para>
    </abstract>
  </articleinfo>

  <part>
    <variablelist>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>URI:</term>
        <listitem><userinput>tag:yaml.org,2002:binary</userinput></listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Shorthand:</term>
        <listitem><userinput>!binary</userinput></listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Kind:</term>
        <listitem>Scalar.</listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Canonical:</term>
        <listitem>Base64 without white space and line breaks.</listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Regexp:</term>
        <listitem>Base64 including white space and line breaks.</listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term>Definition:</term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            A sequence of zero or more octets (8 bit values).
          </para>

          <para>
            Binary data is serialized using the base64 format as defined by
            <ulink url="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2045.txt">RFC2045</ulink>
            (MIME), with the following notes:
          </para>

          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              The content is not restricted to lines of 76 characters or less.
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              Characters other than the base64 alphabet, line breaks ane white
              space are considered an error.
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>

          <para>
            Base64 is the recommended way to store opaque binary data in YAML
            files. Note that many forms of binary data have internal structure
            that may benefit from being represented as YAML nodes (e.g. the
            Java serialization format).
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <example>
<screen>
canonical: !binary "\
 R0lGODlhDAAMAIQAAP//9/X17unp5WZmZgAAAOfn515eXvPz7Y6OjuDg4J+fn5\
 OTk6enp56enmlpaWNjY6Ojo4SEhP/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/+\
 +f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++SH+Dk1hZGUgd2l0aCBHSU1QACwAAAAADAAMAAAFLC\
 AgjoEwnuNAFOhpEMTRiggcz4BNJHrv/zCFcLiwMWYNG84BwwEeECcgggoBADs="
generic: !binary |
 R0lGODlhDAAMAIQAAP//9/X17unp5WZmZgAAAOfn515eXvPz7Y6OjuDg4J+fn5
 OTk6enp56enmlpaWNjY6Ojo4SEhP/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++f/+
 +f/++f/++f/++f/++f/++SH+Dk1hZGUgd2l0aCBHSU1QACwAAAAADAAMAAAFLC
 AgjoEwnuNAFOhpEMTRiggcz4BNJHrv/zCFcLiwMWYNG84BwwEeECcgggoBADs=
description:
 The binary value above is a tiny arrow encoded as a gif image.
</screen>
    </example>
  </part>
</article>
